In this video, we'll take a brief look at the history of c++
based on some major language milestones.
In the early 1970s,
Dennis Ritchie created the c programming language at Bell Labs.
The development of c was closely tied to the development of the UNIX operating system.
In 1979 Bjarne Stroustrup working on what became c++.
He initially called it c with classes.
His idea was to add 2 C object-oriented features that he knew
from a language called similar.
In 1983, the name was changed to c++,
and the first commercial release was in 1989.
In 1998, the c++ standards committee published the first
c++ standard informally known as C++98.
Multiple issues with C++98 were addressed,
and the C++03 standard was released.
Then in mid-2011, the C++11 standard was released, and then after that
++14 and C++17.
As you can see, C++ has been around for quite some time.
Notice that I’ve bolded and italicized the last three standards.
These standards are sort of a renaissance for C++
that change the language going forward.
These changes are what modern C++ is all about.
Generally, C++ that's based on the language
as defined before the C++11 standard
is considered classical C++.
And C++ based on C++11 and forward
is considered modern C++.
That's fine, but what does that mean?
Well, modern C++ is a way of saying that it's C++ as defined today
with new ways of managing objects in memory,
lambdas, smart shared, pointers, threading and more.
These terms may not mean anything to you yet.
But modern C++ feels like a new programming language
when compared to classical C++.
In fact Bjarne Stroustrup described modern C++
as a new language one with modern abstractions for ease of use and power. Along with
Along with the language features themselves,
modern C++  is also about best practices and core guidelines.
In this course, we'll be using modern C++.
As we go through the course, I'll sometimes mention that this feature was introduced in
++ 11 or C++ 14 and so forth.
I'll do that for a few reasons, but the most important is so that you know
where to look for this feature as your C++ studies continue after you finish
this course.
I'll also show you best practices and gotchas that you should be aware of.
If you're new to programming, you may be wondering how all this works.
After all, it sometimes seems like magic.
How can we get a computer to do what we wanted to do using a programming language,
let's see in the next video.